# Benchmark Challenge 2018

## Context

This repository contains the source code of the monitors used to perform runtime verification on execution traces of various Java programs.

Details about the global proposal as well as the traces and their origin can be found here: 
https://github.com/runtime-verification/benchmark-challenge-2018/tree/master/Open/BB_ExecutionTrace

## Make it work

1. Download the project or clone it: 

```console
git clone https://github.com/qbetti/bb-benchmark.git
```

2. Import the sources in Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, or any other IDE.
3. Download BeepBeep3 (v0.9)  [here](https://github.com/liflab/beepbeep-3/releases/tag/v0.9-alpha)
4. Download BeepBeep3's palettes, available [there](https://github.com/liflab/beepbeep-3-palettes/releases/download/20181105/beepbeep-3-palettes-v20181105.zip)
5. Unzip the archives
6. In your IDE, add the jar files `beepbeep-3.jar`, `concurrency.jar`, `ltl.jar` and `tuples.jar` as dependencies of your project.


## Running the RV

Each property has its own package containing the BeepBeep3 piping performing the verification. 
For example, the package `fractal.tree` holds the piping relative to the 
[FractalTree](https://github.com/runtime-verification/benchmark-challenge-2018/blob/master/Open/BB_ExecutionTrace/Traces/FractalTree.md)
trace. This trace was generated by a [Java program](htps://rosettacode.org/wiki/Fractal_tree#Java) which draws a fractal tree given a specific depth.

The property the piping aims at verifying is that the figure should not be drawn outside the window panel, which may occur if the depth is too high or the panel too little.
To run the verification, please ensure of the location of the trace file provided to the `InputStream` object in the `PipeFractalTree.java` class: 

```java
InputStream is = new FileInputStream("/path/to/the/trace/file/here/FractalTree.csv");
```

Then, you can launch the verification by just running the main function. 
After awhile, you should see something like `"Property is verified!"` (with the trace provided earlier).

All the other verifications share the same mechanism, just ensure to have the correct trace file at the beginning of the piping.

